Data Scientist Graduate (Privacy and Data Protection Office) - 2024 Start (BS/MS)
TikTok Inc.
On-site - San Jose, California, United States

About the role

Role Description
Responsibilities
TikTok is the leading destination for short-form mobile video. Our mission is to inspire creativity and bring joy. TikTok has global offices including Los Angeles, New York, London, Paris, Berlin, Dubai, Singapore, Jakarta, Seoul and Tokyo.

Why Join Us
Creation is the core of TikTok's purpose. Our platform is built to help imaginations thrive. This is doubly true of the teams that make TikTok possible.
Together, we inspire creativity and bring joy - a mission we all believe in and aim towards achieving every day.
To us, every challenge, no matter how difficult, is an opportunity; to learn, to innovate, and to grow as one team. Status quo? Never. Courage? Always.
At TikTok, we create together and grow together. That's how we drive impact - for ourselves, our company, and the communities we serve.
Join us.

About the team
PDPO(Privacy and Data Protection Office) is the organization to lead, supervise, and empower all TikTok's privacy work in an accountable and industry leading way. This team is the expert in the landscape of privacy risks and passionate about consulting across the company on implementing the proper safeguards and technical mitigations to ensure that our users’ privacy is honored across the TikTok's products and platforms.

We are looking for talented individuals to join our team in 2024. As a graduate, you will get unparalleled opportunities for you to kickstart your career, pursue bold ideas and explore limitless growth opportunities. Co-create a future driven by your inspiration with TikTok

Successful candidates must be able to commit to one of the following start dates below:
1. January 15, 2024
2. February 5, 2024
3. March 4, 2024
4. May 20, 2024
5. June 10, 2024
6. July 15, 2024
7. August 12, 2024
We will prioritize candidates who are able to commit to these start dates. Please state your availability and graduation date clearly in your resume.

Applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis. We encourage you to apply early.

Candidates can apply for a maximum of TWO positions and will be considered for jobs in the order you applied for. The application limit is applicable to TikTok and its affiliates' jobs globally.

Candidates who pass resume evaluation will be invited to participate in TikTok's technical online assessment through HackerRank.

About the role
We are seeking data scientists at all levels to join the PDPO to utilize data-driven techniques in building solutions to help measure, validate, identify, and envision TikTok's privacy evolution. You will be expected to conduct rigorous analyses to derive actionable insight and present data and its implications in a high quality, clear and concise manner and build deep domain knowledge in privacy from your day by day work.
- Define metrics to measure the operational success of TikTok privacy practise, discover insights, identify areas of improvement and tell compelling stories
- Build and improve privacy operationalized analytics tools and platforms
- Use and improve data to find root causes, patterns and trends for privacy incidents, and suggest potential opportunities for privacy gaps and process improvements
- Conceptualize, develop privacy monitoring dashboard and build alert systems to minimize privacy risk
- Collaborate with various XFN teams (eg. legal, audit, security, engineering and product) and provide data
analysis on various privacy projects
- Develop or improve machine learning systems to detect potential privacy risk and protect user data


Qualifications
- Bachelor or degrees above in Statistics, Operations Research, Business Analytics, Mathematics, Computer science, Engineering or a related technical discipline.
- Experience in data science track (e.g. Metrics and measurement, pattern/trend detection, statistical modeling, Machine Learning)
- Proficient in SQL and Python and data visualization tools or platforms (e.g. Dashboards, Tableau, etc.)
- Experience of using Machine learning techniques such as supervised learning, unsupervised learning, NLP.
- Good communication and presentation skills.

Preferred Qualifications
- Knowledge of data privacy regulations (e.g. GDPR, COPPA etc) is a plus.
- Experience of using Linux, Git and building data pipeline or automation is a plus.
- Good project management skills. Be comfortable working with a large number of XFNs to lead and drive projects at different stages.

TikTok is committed to creating an inclusive space where employees are valued for their skills, experiences, and unique perspectives. Our platform connects people from across the globe and so does our workplace. At TikTok, our mission is to inspire creativity and bring joy. To achieve that goal, we are committed to celebrating our diverse voices and to creating an environment that reflects the many communities we reach. We are passionate about this and hope you are too.

TikTok is committed to providing reasonable accommodations in our recruitment processes for candidates with disabilities, pregnancy, sincerely held religious beliefs or other reasons protected by applicable laws. If you need assistance or a reasonable accommodation, please reach out to us at gprd.accommodations@tiktok.com

By submitting an application for this role, you accept and agree to our global applicant privacy policy, which may be accessed here: https://careers.tiktok.com/legal/privacy.


Job Information
【For Pay Transparency】Compensation Description (annually)
The base salary range for this position in the selected city is $109000 - $142000 annually.

Compensation may vary outside of this range depending on a number of factors, including a candidate’s qualifications, skills, competencies and experience, and location. Base pay is one part of the Total Package that is provided to compensate and recognize employees for their work, and this role may be eligible for additional discretionary bonuses/incentives, and restricted stock units.

At ByteDance/TikTok our benefits are designed to convey company culture and values, to create an efficient and inspiring work environment, and to support ByteDancers to give their best in both work and life. We offer the following benefits to eligible employees:

We cover 100% premium coverage for employee medical insurance, approximately 75% premium coverage for dependents and offer a Health Savings Account(HSA) with a company match. As well as Dental, Vision, Short/Long term Disability, Basic Life, Voluntary Life and AD&D insurance plans. In addition to Flexible Spending Account(FSA) Options like Health Care, Limited Purpose and Dependent Care.

Our time off and leave plans are: 10 paid holidays per year plus 17 days of Paid Personal Time Off(PPTO) (prorated upon hire and increased by tenure) and 10 paid sick days per year as well as 12 weeks of paid Parental leave and 8 weeks of paid Supplemental Disability.

We also provide generous benefits like mental and emotional health benefits through our EAP and Lyra. A 401K company match, gym and cellphone service reimbursements. The Company reserves the right to modify or change these benefits programs at any time, with or without notice.